# Thoughts Putnam paper about prepping libraries using pico methylation kit

FYI: you may be interested in mthods from Hollie’s coral paper: libraries were prepared using the Pico Methyl-Seq Library Prep Kit (ZymoResearch Cat. # D5455). Manufacturer’s instructions were followed with the following modifications. For each sample, 1 ng of coral DNA and 0.05 ng of lambda phage DNA (ZymoResearch Cat. # D5016) were used. Samples were always centrifuged at 12,000 rcf for 30 seconds, however, samples were centrifuged for 12,000 rcf for 90 second after the second 200 µL addition of M Wash Buffer. Warmed elution buffer (56°C) was always added to each sample to increase DNA yield. During the second amplification cycle, 0.5 µL of PreAmp Polymerase was added. After initial clean-up with the DNA Clean-up and Concentrator, the first amplification step was run in eight cycles. For amplification with i5 and i7 index primers, 1 µL of each primer was used to improve amplification. The volume of the 2X LibraryAmp Master Mix was increased to 14 µL to match the increase in index primers.

To remove excess primers from WGBS and MBDBS preparations, samples were bead cleaned with 11 µL of KAPA pure beads (1X) (KAPA Cat # KK8000, Roche Cat. # 07983271001) and 80% ethanol. Cleaned samples were resuspended in 12 µL of room-temperature DNA elution buffer from the Pico Methyl-Seq Library Prep Kit. Samples were re-amplified in either two or four cycles, depending on DNA concentration. Re-amplification was conducted with only 0.5 µl of each i5 and i7 index primer. After re-amplification, 26 µL of KAPA pure beads (1X) and 80% ethanol were used for clean-up. Final samples were resuspended in 14 µL of room-temperature elution buffer. Primer removal was confirmed by running samples on a D5000 TapeStation System (Agilent Technologies).
